+++
title = "To celebrate a new beginning"
date = 2025-01-26

[taxonomies]
tags = ["Reflection", "Plan"]
+++


This is the first post of my new blog, and as the title suggests, is here to
celebrate a new beginning.

As someone who is desparately reluctant to move myself into new and unfamiliar
situations, a recent chain of events has sent my world crumble down in front of
my eyes. Remorse, fear, regret, and everything in between has started to
encroach me whenever my mind wanders off the tasks at hand. To allow these
feelings to take hold of me was, for many years, my instinctive response. The
comfort of knowing that someone had my back, was enough for me to justify to
run away from the problems, internalizing these failures as if there's nothing
that can be done, jumping from one temporary escape to another, convincing
myself that I am at a spot where temporary complacency can be jusified.

Until that someone decides to leave my gloomy nest of excuses in search of a
bright, warm place in the world where she well deserves.

A new beginning was, therefore, emergent. Not only because that's what I
voluntarily called for, knowing that allowing my life to slide further down is
no different to being suicidal, but also that there is perhaps, a slim but
present chance that my life can indeed be saved.

For the longest time, I have suffered from what I (perhaps for my own excuse)
described as the "symptoms of ADHD". I have been unable to focus on anything
for long periods of time, and I have been unable to keep my mind on one task
for long enough to my satisfaction. My mind wanders off anything difficult
at the sight of it, fearing the consequences of failure without even embarking
on the task. Since I have never had formal diagnosis of it (perhaps not even trying
hard enough to get it diagnosed even if I **did** have it), it could be best
called **PADHD** (**P**retended A**ttention** D**eficit** H**yperactivity**
D**isorder**) ***HAS RUINED MY LIFE***.

And so, this is where I want to start, a proclamation of war against my own
disease, and hopefully by the end of it, a piece of history that is well worth
remembering. I cannot assume that there's someone in the world who is going to
bear with all my inadequacies (and frankly, no one should. My own faults for
many years, comes with their own price). There's not going to be anyone who is
going to comfort me, and tell me that I've done my best so I can lie to myself
that I did. By the end of it, I may be as broke and broken as I am right now,
never to get back what's already lost. But _that's not the point_. The point is
that I _will_ survive the mental detriments of PADHD, and by the end of it,
become a more _trustworthy, reliable_ person than I was before.

## What this blog is going to be

The purpose of this blog is to say the least, complicated (like my current mess
itself). It is on one hand a project on its own, a good motivating reason for
[many, many interesting expansions](../backlog) that finally gets my hands on
some practical coding, a good reason for me to ***want to code*** for a truly
good reason.

On the other hand, it is a place where I force myself to commit to things, one
at a time. It is a place for me to learn about myself, how I work and how I can
improve, and a place where I can put my thoughts down for everyone to see. I
wish to expose my mind to the world, dissect it and fix it with a lancet; but
at the same time, the consistency itself serves as a source of confidence, to
tell myself that I can indeed not only commit to a uncomfortable task, but also
to accept the consequences of failures, hostility and setbacks.

Last but not least, it is perhaps a good place for me to also drop down some
of my memories, some of the best ones that I can still remember, some of the
ones that kept me going. For any of my audiences (of which I only know one), it
is perhaps a good place to peek into my past, and draw a little bit of a smile
at the end of it ðŸ¤—.

(to be continue.)
