+++
title = "己巳年二月初五"
date = "2025-03-04"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["Journal", "Reflection"]

[extra]
comment = true
+++

The key to self-motivation is: feeling competent at doing worthwhile work.
- Always go for the good consequences.
- Make you feel you have a choice: believe you have a sense of autonomy: go for
    pleasant consequences. Positive reinforcement
- Build a sense of community. Adults are inter-dependent, not independent.

What I understand myself:
- I/E: I'm in between being extroverted and introverted, from the way I tend to generate ideas I would say my Ne is stronger
    than my Ni (meaning I would search externally for answers, draw inspirations from interactions with other people more than
    through introspection).
- N: I'm more intuitive/empathetic than reasoning. I'm better at designing than analysis. My analysis skills need to be trained.
- F: I'm a feeler. I may decide based on my feelings.

### 今天的观察
- Feelings are different from emotions! Being able to accurately distinguish and
    describe feelings is a key to higher emotional intelligence (and in general,
    better data gathering and for better self-analysis). From today onwards,
    I will try to use words in as much accuracy as possible to describe my day in this
    journal series.
    - From the same post: feelings become emotions when we assign meaning to them.
        In the same way that, if hunger can be met reasonably well with a meal in
        anticipation, it would not become anything but; however if there's also an
        uncertainty about whether you'll have food in the near future, the meaning
        of that discomfort compounds to something much more negative.
    - Try to reason about why certain feelings transcends beyond its most trivial meanings
        is a crucial introspective exercise that would help with Ti ability in general.
- Related to this point above: psychologists argue whether you "feel" something first
    and then try to justify that with an emotion. A common example is when I used to
    (up until a week ago) feel "shit" in the morning, when I feel really down and
    feel really affected by the relationship. In reality, that's because I've got
    an empty stomach and too much acid reflux. Having some basic food and digestive
    medicines makes me feel a lot better. Psychologists (most notably, James-Lange)
    famously said "I'm trembling, and therefore I'm afraid", indicating the potential
    inverted relationship between somatic response and emotional identification.
    Regardless of the truthfulness of this claim, making yourself physically feel
    better is still crucial for having a good and fulfilled day.
- Self test: 3 questions to clarify your thoughts
    1. What is my current mood?
    2. What is my current energy level?
    3. What does how I feel, mean?

##### How to read faster.
I've always been able to read Chinese with a blazing speed. However, this skill did not
translate well to English, where I constantly struggled with speed reading English text.
One of the key problem, as I later realized, is that I'm still "reading" the text out
loud in my head, which my ADHD brain could not handle in the first place (whenever I read
something out loud to my friend, even in my native language, I could not actually comprehend
what I'm reading).

Ideally, to read fast enough to keep pace with what I'm doing (reading papers or other technical
writings, or reading in general, which has been a source of frustration when I worked with
codebase with lengthy documentations (these are supposed to be the good ones because they do
keep their documentations around)), I would be parsing the semantic tokens in the text, and
then piece them up as a sentence with my own logic. This process also stimulates my neural
connections related to logical processes, allowing me to read more in depth and think while I
read.

A recent tip I read off the internet suggested a good way to do so: to force yourself to not
read things out loud, read every word in your head as just alternating 1 and 2s.

---

### Updates from two weeks time

Yep, reading number 1 and 2 in my head whilst reading certainly helped with reading speed.
