+++
title = "å·±å·³å¹´äºŒæœˆåˆå…«"
date = "2025-03-08"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["Journal", "Reflection", "Draft"]

[extra]
comment = true
+++

> To all the women viewing this website: happy International Women's Day!

<small>ðŸš§This journal entry is a work in progressðŸš§</small>

### A Note
The journal entries for the rest of this week is coming; however, I'll need
a bit more time to clean them up since much of them contains partial writings
or shorthands for myself.

### Things I've done today
Honestly, not too much. Spent the morning eating and doing grocery; spent the
entire afternoon exercising, and spent much of the evening recuperating from
4 hours of cardio.

- I woke up at 8 today (instead of the normal 0630, though I did wake up then, I
realized I was only having 4.5 hrs of sleep and decided to get 1.5 hrs more).
- 0800-0830: Really relaxing shower
- 0830-0930: Learnt about protein intake, how to bulk up etc.
- 0945-1030: Went to brunch alone because no one else has booked
- 1030-1115: Grocery shopping (got a lot of proteins still, forgot to buy canned
    tuna which reported is a very cheap source of protein)
- 1115-1200: Revised and modified my lexer code.
- 1330-1830: Went to Frisbee session. Most intense sport I've had in a while tbf,
    but it was fun. The sense of accomplishment comes from
    - It's my first time playing, and I wasn't completely useless in the field.
    - I actually persevered through a 4-hour game despite wanting to leave early
        multiple times after exhaustion (well I wasn't exhausted, on hindsight
        I was chickening out a bit).
- 1830-2100: Chilled a bit, then my phone completely died (it's a brick now and
    beyond salvageable), so I went to look for solutions; also took a nice shower,
    and had dinner.
- 2100-2130: Chilled a bit more after dinner. Learnt about the Jung's personality framework
    and got increasingly confused.
- 2130-0100: Parser implementation (partial, headers only).

### Things I'm proud of this week
1. First and foremost: I wrote a lexer and a parser, spent 15 hours of totally uninterrupted
    and not-distracted coding. While I wouldn't say this experience is by itself transformative,
    it has reaffirmed my belief that I do like writing code and solving problems, just not
    how it was taught in Cambridge (and perhaps some of my own methods). And the fact that
    I was able to just sit there and do it, going into the flow and solving problems as I go
    literally without thinking about anything else, is just the nicest experience in the world. The
    affirmation I got from this activity has kept me very energetic (and I feel very motivated
    and accomplished) throughout the day (and the next day).
2. I played tennis and Frisbee (I'm ... not good at either, but it's worth
   trying) this week, in addition to hitting the Gym four times and doing
    push-ups in my room. I feel super active and energized.
   - On my first Frisbee session: it's really the first time I socialized with
       Chinese people outside my own department/college/people I knew before uni.
       Boy playing from 2-6pm almost non-stop is quite... an experience.
   - An apparently these people do rock climbing as well and my friend seems to be quite a
        novice at it. I guess it's worth a shot going with him.
   - Things I've observed: I am becoming slightly more proactive now (in team sports),
        did a good job defending against one of the other players and blocked a
        number of times. My lack of confidence (because I'm still bad at catching/throwing
        the Frisbee where I want it to go) prevented me from taking a more aggressive
        role in offence, and as a result I played more auxiliary roles (blocking, pick and roll
        etc (though on hindsight that's supposed to be a foul loll...)).
   - Sports wise I do wish to be more proactive (gymming isn't mentally very
       challenging in the sense that you don't have the responsibility of a team
       sport, which psychologically has always been an issue to me because I was
       afraid to take on responsibilities when I'm not confident with the sport
       itself).
   - Boy, playing a sport from 2pm to sun down is an experience I've never had in my life.
        I guess that's what It's like for my friends at lower sec who played basketball
        or football all the time. It's quite an experience to say the least.
   - In general playing team sports expose you to a number of people whom you can tell
        are extremely extroverted and sociable. They are, in that sense, eminent presence,
        and one can tell why some people would like them. I currently don't feel excessively
        confident in front of those people, but I do think it's worthwhile to meet them more
        for this type of events (socials aside, they've been a massive boost to my cardio)
        and to eventually make friends with some of them. I haven't proactively made new
        friends in a very long time (that's perhaps never how I'd make friends), and
        even just for the sake of knowing exactly what kind of people I like and dislike
        talking to, it's worthwhile to try.
3. My sleep schedule is stabilizing to a good point now. Granted I'm not exactly sleeping for 7 hours
    a day (on average I'm getting 6.75 hours a day), but I feel super energized and ready to lit my
    day on fire every single day. Well, if I can stay energized for 1 less hour of sleep each day,
    I'm getting so much more time to get things done.
