+++
title = "己巳年正月十二"
date = "2025-02-09"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["Journal", "Reflection"]

[extra]
comment = true
+++

> If there's a problem that you absolutely have no idea how to solve, then it's
> not your problem. Don't let it hog your attention.

One of the few times what my dad says actually calms me down a bit.

### 高效时段
- 0745-1045: Called my parents (primarily my dad tho)
- 1130-1230: Applied for student couselling. _I've finally done it after all these years_
- 1730 - 0000: working in the lab (the lab during Sunday is soo nice)

### 有效休息
- 1330 - 1410 Cooking + lunch (番茄炒蛋里加Sainsbury's 现成海鲜 is surprisingly
    delicious (though the total cost of the dish is now bloated to about £4))
- 1410 - 1430 nap after lunch
- 1705 - 1730 jogged to the department (carrying a laptop and a desktop and my beloved mechanical keyboard)
    - Yeah I know, it's just 2 km and I wasn't even running the whole time (or
        that fast). Still, I listened to the [coolest Chinese rock music
        EVER](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1os4y1F7WZ/) and boy I feel good
        running in the rain. Time to get myself to do 5km with weights on (so I'm
        up to army standard). My cardio definitely improved quite a lot over
        the course of last year.
- 1800 - 1900 intermittend chats with friends at lab

### 元效率
- 1045 - 1130: writing the last section of this post

### 其他的话

I feel proud that I spoke to my father candidly today about how I would like to change
the way we have conversations, focusing on the following points

1. I don't like how my family has been filtering information to me, judging "on my behalf
    what I should and should not know". I told him that, to me, it is more of an emotional
    burden to carry, and making effort trying to guess between the lines, and worry
    (sometimes unnecessarily) about a mystical "bad" situation. As someone who thinks
    (or would like to think) in first principle, it is much better if I have complete
    information and judge from there.
2. I admitted my mistake in not contacting them more previously. I admitted that I did
    that primarily to avoid dissapointing him after we've spoken and agreed on certain
    things, on which I failed to execute as planned, mostly due to my own inactions.
3. I believe I've also made it clear that it is very important for me to truly prove
    my independence from them, financially or otherwise. I said that I would need
    the opportunity to be economically independent in order to evaluate my relationship
    with the family, and for me to forge a new one through this new relationship.
    I don't think he fully agrees on this, and states that there should not be burden
    in me in seeking help from them. We haven't come to agreement here, and I may
    have left an impression that I agreed with what he said (logically I don't disagree,
    but I think there's a problem there).
4. I have discussed with my dad, though with certain sensitivities and reservations,
    about how he sees the situation with my mom. To be honest, I see the way he talked
    about the situation as "him being responsible for my mom's well-being", but not so
    much that there's a lot of love or respect in between. He, in particular, mentioned
    that my mom did not care enough for my maternal granda (her mom) (from what my mom
    told me, yeah, unresolved childhood issues again). Due to the supposed secrecy in
    my interaction with my mom, I understand that my mom cares about me deeply,
    even though I can't really tell my dad about it unfortunately.
5. He mentioned that "I think I have been a better father to you than my grandpa was to him,
    perhaps 100 times 10000 times better". I understand that he has definitely provided
    me with a lot of opportunities, but we can probably also tell that he's not over it.
6. He talks too much (and find execuses for it!!!). We've spoken for 3 hours
   and he was speaking 95% of the time!!! I must have learnt the whole
    "interrogative conversation" from him (now that I realized). I don't know,
    maybe I've inherited this from him. Definitely something to improve on. I have
    suggested to have a theme for the conversation in the following weeks, and to
    keep it short (I was saying now that we are calling every week, you don't have
    to lump everything you want to tell me all at once in a single conversation).

Towards the end I spoke to my mom for just about 5 minutes or less. She's happy
that I'm now able to think and act fully for myself, and she said that while I
should cherish the memory and experience from my last relationship, she also
said "the best way to deal with ex is as if they're dead". "If you split up for
any reason, that basically means that you guys aren't a good fit or that there's no
karma left for you two" lol but also sad :( . Part of what she said stems from
the fact that she wants me to move on quickly. But there's also elements of
truth in it. Though I would say I am (and whoever I would be dating) still in
our formative years, learning and growing more we experience. and that whovever
may be a good/bad fit for me today may longer be in 1,2 years time, I also
understand that a breakup imply some kind of more systematic challenge, which I
will need to dig deeper in these couple of months to find out for myself.
Furthermore, there's also the burden of knowledge (of the past). _Tough, but
true._
