+++
title = "己巳年三月初四"
date = "2025-04-01"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["Journal", "Reflection"]

[extra]
comment = true
+++

> April Fools XD

<video width="360" autoplay loop muted>
    <source src="/videos/reflection.mp4" type="video/mp4">
Your browser does not support this video tag.
</video>

> Two minutes walk from the lab there lies a pond, in that pond are stars we call the sun.

### Major Events
- Had my ADHD screening. It's likely not ADHD, but it was suggested that it
    could be DCD (developmental coordination disorder), whose major symptoms
    are related to clumsiness and lack of coordination. However, studies also
    show that DCD impacts
    - _time management, planning and personal organisation skills_
    - _how you deal with your emotions_
    - _how you function in social situations_
    - _how you learn new skills, think and remember information at work and home_

- (Sprint?) session with M
    - This is the major productivity event today, where I work on the `florl` side project.
    - My goals:
        - Get the work done so it doesn't rot on my mind and becomes a burden.
    - Result: got half of it done; I still don't quite understand half of it
        and M says he's going to do a refactor on the utility function I'm going to use.
        He's way better than I am in software engineering, and there's a lot I can learn
        from him. I believe I made the right call by asking for a weekly face-to-face meeting
        session with him.
        - Either way: the training loop is more or less complete with the
            help of GenAI. I'm not entirely happy with this because I do want
            to learn to write torch. But I guess this is what I'm stuck with
            RN.
    - What I did well: tried to be more organized in handling work, made notes,
        and "gave the work some thought before I **ACT**".

### Reflections
I went back to that corner again: that white wall just behind the Squire's. I cherish this season, when the sun rises
high enough to shine on me through that angle. Again, it's so warm and relaxing, brings me out of this world for just
a little bit (or, maybe, it brings me MORE INTO the world for a bit).

My chill time was briefly interrupted by a phone call from the recruiter. My interview at Cadence went well, and they've
decided to move forward faster: they are skipping the offline rounds for the on-site round straight away. I don't really
know how I'd like to react to this: on one hand I'm thrilled and excited to be appreciated. But on the other hand: I'm
also worried that I'm under prepared. I don't have all the time in the world to prepare for this interview.

I didn't manage to have a productive evening though. I spent time to chill, which, given the work I've done and stress
I've faced earlier that day, was reasonable by my own account. However, I think I've taken the first step yesterday, by
facing my fear, asking for help, to get implementation work done. Now it's time to do the same for my diss/thesis work.
