+++
title = "å·±å·³å¹´äºŒæœˆåˆå…«"
date = "2025-03-07"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["Journal", "Reflection"]

[extra]
comment = true
+++

> I don't have a quote today. Wait till 

ä»Šæ—©Bç«™æ€»ç»“ï¼š
I spent about 1.5 hours today on social media. Though there's probably a better way I could
have spent my morning, given that the time is already spent on this activity I might as well
record down:

1. On Chinese car plate design
    - Apparently the Blue and Green plate used different fonts. The green plates used
        a more rigid/squarish font, and has considered design points to make the signs
        more tamper-proof. The green plates are reportedly harder to recognize with OCR.
    - The fonts on the blue plate originated from the Din font, a font first designed
        to be easily reproducible without digital tools. It was the standard font
        for German car plates as well.
    - One of the major issues with Chinese car plates is that they cover a very large
        area: they aren't the widest or the longest, but they cover a very sizeable area.
2. On the state of Intel
    - Recent stock price turbulence (bad report mixed with buy up rumors)
    - Broadcom + TSMC is trying to buy up intel
    - Broadcom as a company in general seems to be doing something interesting
3. On MBTI stuff
    - I'm starting to get very concerned about this categorization in general. Partly
        because I'm quite ambivalent on one of the categories, but also because
        most of the information available online seems to be more restrictive than
        encouraging.
    - The best way forward is still to plan out your day, execute, and do well.
4. Maki's arithmetic lab: aversion comes from the past, but it says nothing about the future.
    - Making regular progress is the best way to avoid aversion.
    - These are stuffs I already know, but nevertheless these are useful.
5. Be reminded that it would be internation women's day tomorrow. Remember to
   congratulate them.

### How I spent my day
- 0800-1130: [build your own interpreter](https://app.codecrafters.io/courses/interpreter/)
    - I'm actually stuck in the early chaptersðŸ˜¢

- 1500-0000: Super productive day, written ~500 lines of code.
