+++
title = "己巳年月"
date = "2025-04-06"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["Journal", "Reflection"]

[extra]
comment = true
+++

### Talk with Parents
- Mom's got a pimple? removed. Left a scar on her face with 6 stitches...
- Dad's saying something useful
    - Personal financial management: investment, general knowledge about the financial
        market, etc. This is indeed an area in which some work can go a long way.
    - I honestly had a lot of funds in my account for some proper waelth
        management. In the foresseable future if job apps went well I'm gonna have
        quite some money in my account to put into the market.
        - So why didn't I do it? Being risk averse, fearful of
        - I should talk to Br a lot more about the financial market, stuffs like that.
            He's getting a job as a quant researcher, so clearly he's got some hang of it.
    - He's still got low EQ ngl, but heck I don't give a damn. I get his point and
        I can choose to ignore his delivery.
    - Overall, if my life goal is to start something interesting (a company, or some
        other organisation I think would feed into the goals of building a modern
        socialist organisation), understanding finances would be crucial.
        - Personal finances: make sure even if the endeavour flops, I have enough to live
            by for 5-10 years (and provide for family?)
        - Company finances: how to maximally use the financial/secondary market to
            feed into our dreams/goals.
        - Office politics and power struggles. How would that work? How do I model
            this? How do I protect myself (display the ability to screw someone over
            and have the choice not to, essentially).

### Trip to London
- Haircut
    - Plan B if it goes flop
- Tate modern
- Try on glasses
