+++
title = "己巳年五月廿三"
date = "2025-06-18"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["Journal", "Reflection"]

[extra]
comment = true
+++

Below are some random phrases I overheard from a mother and her son.

> （某个积木玩具）你做的真的很好看，是你自己的想法吗？
> 你是照着这个做的吗？
> 我还没搭完呢？

The tone of the mother convinces me that she's fully well intentioned, and appeared to be
very gentle. However, I personally still feel pressured by her words by putting myself into
the same position as the child. The implied "preference" for originality would lead me to
believe that anything other than some original design is suboptimal, and therefore implicitly
penalised. Maybe this is just something to be aware of in parenting, for
sensitive kids (like myself).

### Key Impression of thed Day

_If there's one thing to remember about today..._ ADHD people like myself
NEED to do more to record down thoughts and ideas. If anything, this could be the key
to perform on par or even out perform the non-divergent peers. Primarily, I
find it hard remember my inspirations for more than a few minutes. Since so
many things are overloading my senses simultaneously, it's hard for me to
remember any of the important things at all. However, the sheer volume of
ideas we have is simply overwhelming: in many cases, I'll have some new ideas
every 10 minutes, and good ones probably once every hour. By recording things
down, we establish a sense of certainty: that the time we spend by ourselves,
is actually worth it. For those of you who don't know, staying conscious is
itself a tiring business for us. Our mental landscape is, for the lack of a
better description, noisy. (Maybe that's why I ended up being classified as
an ENFP: my preference for external intuition is a result of the inability
to prioritise clear, logical deducation. Memory gets blurred into a feeling
or summary because my experience of time is non-continuous: because time flows
continuously, but my internal threads are interleaved and time-sharing on my
brain. Each thread therefore only gets discontinuous frames of time, and
forces me to generate an impression based on fragments I can recall, instead
of a continuous story).

### Tiny Points I want to Record Down

- Havin gthe ability to read quickly without missing details seems like an amazing skill to have.
- Atheletes train at 2KM altitude for months to get their body used to low oxygen environment: stronger
    heart muscles, more hemoglobin in the blood, etc.
- FPGA for LLM inference results: LUT input size seems to have a significant impact over area, performance and power AT THE SAME TIME. In general,
    it seems like Lut6s on current generation process nodes (16nm and 28nm) provides the best results.
    [Link to video](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1UTQAY4E7j/?share_source=copy_web&vd_source=a72bc99886f223370de5707659978a31)

#### To verify with future results

The US involvement in the current Iran-Israel conflict seems highly speculative
(speculative in the sense of "getting involved in highly risky event with
partial/transient knowledge or recent development"). For my own world-building
alone, I'd like to verify:

- Does speculation truly work in geopolitics (in this day and age, if so, why didn't they
    get involved earlier? Because they don't have enough intelligence before the current
    development of the conflict? Because logical deductions are insufficient in such events?
    Or does it reflect a more irrational nature of the decision making process)?
- If so, how.
- The key to Iran's survival right now is to
    - Re-establish control over the state apparatus
    - Establish convincible military deterrence.
- Or else the shake up of the middle-eastern political balance will be catastrophic.

This would be part of my future metrics to determine the severity, impact and consequences of
geopolitical events.

### What's good about today

- I recorded down my thoughts and right now it feels amazing. Had I done otherwise, I would have
felt again that I've spent the day in vain. However, this convinces me that even when I'm not
doing anything specific today, I have made progress in personal development.
- The haircut seems nice? XD
