+++
title = "己巳年二月廿七"
date = "2025-03-26"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["Journal", "Reflection"]

[extra]
comment = true
+++

> 是的，人类不怕突如其来的战争，但是人类本能害怕悬而未决、需要长期坚持的对峙……

I don't know... But this one just hits me hard. It really takes more courage to
deal with uncertainty and non-resolutions than certain death, ends, failures.

In all fairness, uncertainty manifests itself in many of us as certain pain: pain
which devours us, crunches our heart and compresses our chest. It manifests itself
as anxiety, despair, and sleepless nights. But the bottom of this is still fear,
an animal instinct to protect ourselves from the worst consequences, by avoiding
doing anything at all.

Letting that fear to override us is foolish: there are things in life that's worth
doing, and things that's worth that leap in faith. Moreover, overcoming fear
allows me to function, to get closer to my dreams, and to become a better person,
both to myself and to be around with.

% TODO: I want to expand on this point.

### Reflection

Overall, I'm still struggling with genuinely uninteresting things with tight
deadlines. Working on MSP assignments with a tight deadline has been one such
experience. The overall experience has been dreadful, but I guess I also did
persevere.

### Things I've noticed

I have clearly felt a dopamine boost when I picked up my phone and
scrolled through 1.5 minutes of rather useless content. The peaceful,
comfortable environment I've built myself to allow me to focus better shambles
in front of that experience. And now I find it hard to focus, although writing
it down, letting the feeling sink in, and allow myself to record it down and
reason about it helps a little.

I've had the most wonderful afternoon today sitting on the ground in an
empty campus, with the afternoon sun in my face, and my eyes shut. Bird chirps
in my surroundings, with intermittent voices from human interaction. My whole
world was lit up (quite literally), with the sun, it's reflection in the
window, on the polished stone pavement, all shining into my closed eyes at
once. It was a magical experience.
