+++
title = "己巳年正月十六(补档)"
date = "2025-02-13"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["Journal", "Reflection"]

[extra]
comment = true
+++

### Random

{{ music(src="/music/2025-02-12-1305.mp3", loop=true) }}

We can play music on this site now (no surprises there, audio is an
existing feature in HTML5).

Comment on the music itself: this was just me whistling random tunes that
pops up in my head yesterday. I guess the tune sounds particularly 90s or early
2000s, and I definitely don't
[arrange](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arrangement) what I whistle. _Just
train of thought I guess😁..._

### 高效时段

- 0600-1045 Completed Work for R01 for this week. Don't expect any good score
    out of it tbh. But that's fine, I've only put in so much effort (or frankly,
    I've only had time to put in so much effort), and I'm getting what the work is
    worth.
- 1100-1300 Contact hour for R01

### 元效率？

- 1330-1520 First session with counsellor. To be honest, I don't think the
    counsellor has been that helpful. It's more just me trying to get some of my
    thoughts over the past few weeks out of the system, than her giving effective
    guidance.
- When I mentioned the situation back home, how, I've both taken steps to
    understand my parents better, but at the same time still not entirely sure
    what I can do to help, her suggestion seemed lukewarm and not really
    helpful. "Sometimes there's only so much we can change, and we can only
    accept our limitations". Maybe she does't quite understand either the
    perceived severity of the my problem, or how east Asian family dynamics
    differ. She doesn't understand the part that I CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE and
    soon will be capable to, I'm just not sure what exactly can I do that won't
    make matters worse. _I know what I'm not being saved by some one else when
    I go to counselling/therapy, I'm just going through the process to
    understand myself better to handle my own situation._ But still, avoiding
    any meaningful conversation on that end entirely was far from desirable.
- Upon what was essentially my own reflection sessions: I've noticed that I
    subconciously "don't want to get in other people's way" despite that the
    fact that I don't really like this idea. This tension begins to manifast
    itself when I confront my loved ones (or those I thought who loved me),
    when I want to live out of this façade and "be myself", yet what I often
    ended up doing was to fixate on "what I really want for myself" to an
    extreme, almost like I was trying to balance out the 委屈 I felt out there.
    In other words, I was being 窝里横 in this case.
- The discussion on how I don't like to seek help from friends is true.
    Even though I know this from perhaps a long time ago (and this definitely
    appears in my own reflection a lot), the fact that I don't want my friends
    to know that I'm in a bad state/doing worse than them is something that
    bothers me. I care about my image in a toxic way. By bringing this up
    in the session, I guess I'm getting an extra nudge when I have to encounter
    this kind of situation next time, from someone who has nothing else to do
    with my life. This kind of nudge is quite different from those I got from
    my family and loved one, who, by knowing their expectations of me, only
    makes me feel worse subconciously. My feelings to my family and loved ones
    are too complex to not get my own self-judgements projected on them, and
    the feeling that I've been judged by people close to me, implicitly or
    explicitly, makes me feel extremely vulnerable and insecure (which,
    admittedly, probably relates to some child trauma). As a child, I feel
    "undefended" by my parents in front of my classmates, friends and
    competitors, who often, by setting other people as "role models", make me
    feel "worse" or "less good". I've always had the feeling (at least when I
    was a kid) that the only reasons my parents care for me in that way is
    because they are morally "stuck" with me, and they would probably be better
    if they adopt all those "role models" (who all happened to be girls?) as
    their own. I always feel betrayed and abandoned when something like that
    happens. In some ways I'm being the "middle child" in a single child
    family, or lest that how I felt. My response to this? Build an perfect
    coccoon around myself to shut them up, even when I'm crying within.

    As adults we know that's not true. However crude or rudimentary they tried
    to show their love, they didn't do that because they wanted someone
    else as their own child, and, however wrong they might have been, nevered
    deliberately abused me or physically harmed me. And to translate this strategy
    with my parents to when I deal with my friends and loved ones is just out right
    absurd. Another way to think about it is that, friends who judge you
    for your problems are not worth making anyways, and, unlike parents, I have
    a choice here. Instead of making myself uncomfortable in this situation,
    I have the choice to just leave.

    (This is not the same as having a friend who points out my problems though.
    I appreciate the latter, knowing that they DON'T EXPECT anything from me
    other than for my own good. And much as I like to have my friends around,
    I'm psychologically less afraid of my friend "abandoning me" than it would
    be the case for my family or my partner.)

    In many ways I have been plagued by this insecurity for too many years.
    I was first afraid to be "abandoned" by my parents, and then, when I
    got into a long-term relationship with my ex, her. The more insecure I
    felt, and harder I clinged on. Since the age of 12, I've lost the
    concept of a "home", and it almost feels like I've never had one: there's
    not one corner on earth that makes me feel safe and secure, where I can
    freely be what I want. The moment I met her, I thought I found that place.
    And for the next eight years, where-ever she was was where I would call home,
    a safe place for me, the closest I've got to either a family or heaven.
    Yet upon reflection, that insecurity has plagued this relationship from the
    start. I both felt comfortable enough to feel complacent in the
    relationship, but also insecure enough to constantly "test her limit" for
    her love. The latter always come back in mild dissapointment because, well,
    no one is obliged to love you beyond themselves, (or to love you
    unconditionally?). She's always prioritized herself over me (and that's
    healthy), and I both deeply admire her for that, and at the same time felt
    insecure for that exact same reason. I thought, at the time, that I've
    built myself a second family (a true family), and I clinged on to it the
    best I can, not knowing that the more desperately I did so, the worse it
    looks like for the other party. (There were, brief moments in that
    relationship when I felt I was truly getting better and secure. My second
    year in Singapore in particular (our first year together), where worked my
    way out to be almost the top in cohort for social studies (a course for
    which, I was at the dead bottom of my class a year before), got myself a
    gold medal for a junior physics olympiad, got into another physics
    tournament (though this one is, complicated, and deserves another post on
    its own). But even then, the modes in which we interacted was still plagued
    by my insecurity of losing her. In many ways, it always made this fear a
    self-fulfilling prophecy).

    Ultimately, the fear of "abandonment" is almost a problem that could
    be analyzed through the semantics alone: to be abandoned you must first
    be attached. Not only that, whoever's afraid of abandonment must
    have willingly given up their control over this attachment, and left it
    in the other person's hand. To be frightened of abandonment, one must
    have first willingly given up the controls he has over his own life (or
    at least a very important part of it). Yet the more he does so, the
    less secure he would be, and in worse ways would he cling on to this
    attachement, ultimately making life worse for every one involved.

    So now, the whole phrase 成家立业 means something totally different.
    It's not just "meeting the right person" and "have a family together"
    and "build a career". No, it's about actively building yourself a "love
    nest", a place where you can be yourself, be loved by yourself, and as
    a bonus be loved by the people you care about, "a place for yourself in
    this world". Some people are born with a place safe enough for them to
    call home. I was never fortunately enough to have that. Yet with 3/4 or
    so of my life left, it's not too late for me to build myself something
    similar, a place where I can call home.
