+++
title = "己巳年正月廿四"
date = "2025-02-21"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["Journal", "Reflection"]

[extra]
comment = true
+++

> 青箬笠，绿蓑衣，斜风细雨不须归。

<small>🚧 The other sections of this journal entry is still in progress 🚧</small>

### 其他的话

Not contact was broken... But I like what came out of it.

🐷 told me that she really likes her new job, really enjoys the atmosphere, is
encouraged by her managers and colleagues, and is looking forward to staying
in the company for a couple more years (2-3) before she may decide to go back
to education again. She sounds really happy, and I'm also super, super excited
for her.

This does spell a death sentence for me in terms of getting back with her. Yet
I'm so happy (so much so that, to calm myself down for more work, I went
down to the gym to work out a bit) because

1. I'm really, really happy to see that she's in a happy place and has a very
   positive outlook of life. It's such a departure from her honestly miserable
    state this time last year, and I'm really, really happy that's the case.

2. It's also a relief that, once the whole option of getting back together
    becomes a bit of a whim (a bit too much to overcome with what I can do
    alone), I've lost a thing I worry about.

3. To be honest, I genuinely cherished this relationship, and I don't regret
    having it. The memories I had with her were golden, dreamy, loving and
    heartwarming to recall. Despite what's been said during the breakup, I can feel
    her love for me even till the second we parted in Singapore (
    I used to mildly dislike it when she bit me on my cheeks, but gosh no one is ever
    gonna do that to me again ever, and boy I didn't know that's gonna go down
    as my one of favourite moments in life. We hugged and cried so much when we
    parted, and the love at that moment was definitely definitely real, even in the
    last minute we were together. And I will not allow ***ANYONE*** to take that
    memory away from me, or to tamper it, to rewrite it in any way, shape, or form
    to say that we didn't love each other back then. That was our love, and to me
    it is sacred).

    But on hindsight, the relationship also gave me a lot of stress because it
    felt like too much responsibility for me to fulfill at the time. There's
    the constant joggling between my own wishes for myself, our wish for the
    family life, my own family, and everything in between. I felt very lost
    back then and just couldn't handle it. My solution was to avoid all of these
    and sink into an abyss of helplessness and self-hatred, to make myself
    feel so bad, that my inaction and inability to change the situation seemed
    justifiable. I'm glad that, by forgoing the _idée fixe_ of wanting to get
    back with her (not that I don't hope for it, but that I just don't actively
    pursue that future as a priority), I can feel the last thing holding me
    back from focusing on improving my own life gone.

4. I've been getting happier this week, surrounded by friends who reach out to
    me, who allowed me to expose my vulnerabilities (some already did a few weeks back)
    and gave me the both the rational analysis and emotional support I needed.
    I've been talking to more friends and been exposed to more perspectives, some
    of which are quite inspiring and helpful even outside of the context. 
    I've been going to gardens, to concerts, watched a movie and cried.
    I guess I'm getting better at enjoying my own life without attachment. I'm
    inspired and determined to make my life better and live mine as brilliantly as
    yours, if not just for some friendly competition, a little bit better.

5. To 🐷: yes I have been talking to people about our relationship and the fallout,
    but you know me well enough and should be able to trust me enough that I would
    NEVER, NEVER slander you for any reason. I said what I said to honour my memory
    of that relationship, and like I said before, they are golden, loving, warm
    and almost like a dream. I remember you just like when we were in our happiest
    moments, and I would never betray that. I told my friends that, "I can't
    see there's anything I don't like about you" (except smoking perhaps, because
    lung cancer is such a horrible way to die and I've seen it myself, please
    quit if you can, or quit when you feel more comfortable about quiting later in
    life). There were definitely moments in our relationship I told you something
    like "I'm so happy... I can die right now. I'm just happy, I'm exactly where I
    want to be", and I bet with all my life there were moments you felt the same.
    I'm just fortunate to have loved so deeply and passionately, and that has made my
    life beyond wonderful.

Overall, I just want you to know that I'm really, really genuinely happy for you, not
because I want to impress you or because I'm motivated to get back with you. Quite
the contrary, when all the intricacies of a relationship (expectations, hopes,
commitments...) have been taken away from the equation, all there is left is just
the sheer excitement and joy for you because your life is in a good place, even
if that good place can be absent of my presence.

I just want to shout to the world: CONGRATULATIONS!!!! I'M SOOOO HAPPPYYY FOR YOUUUU!!!!
